# Study the linkage of race/ethnicity to body measurements by machine learning on NHANES 2005-2006 dataset

In the present study I have utilized the dataset of DS13 Examination-Body Measurements collected in the survey and tried to determine the linkage of race/ethnicity (RIDRETH1) to body measurements like body weitht (BMXWT), standing height (BMXHT), body mass index (BMXBMI), upper leg length (BMXLEG), maximal calf circumference (BMXCALF), upper arm length (BMXARML), arm circumference (BMXARMC), waist circumference (BMXWAIST), thigh circumference (BMXTHICR), triceps skinfold (BMXTRI),  subscapular skinfold (BMXSUB). Gender (RIAGENDR) and age (RIDAGEYR) were also included. I trained supervised machine learning algorithms on the dataset and then predicted the race/ethnicity with these features. The race/ethnicity (RIDRETH1) has five classes: 1) Mexican American, 2) Other Hispanic, 3) Non-Hispanic White, 4) Non-Hispanic Black, and 5) Other Race-Including Multi-Racial. In the present study 2) Other Hispanic and 5) Other Race-Including Multi-Racial were excluded since their sample numbers were too small compared to other classes. After processing the dataset, there were thirteen features. The target had three classes. 

To find a good classification algorithm, I evaluated Logistic Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis, K-Nearest Neighbors, Decision Trees, Extremely Randomized Trees, Random Forests, Gaussian Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines, Gradient Boosting, and Neural Networks on processed dataset using cross validatoin method. The accuracy of each algorithm modeling with default parameters was computed. The top five algorithms were Neural Network, Linear Discriminant Analysis, Gradient Boosting, and Linear Regression, and Random Forests. Then I focused on Neura Network, Linear Discriminant Analysis, and Gradient Boosting.

When modeling with Neural Networks algorithm, the best pair of accuracy scores for training set and validation set was 0.664 and 0.669, respectively. They were very close. The recall was 0.67 and f1-score was 0.66.

When modeling with Linear Discriminant Analysis algorithm, the best pair of accuracy scores for training set and validation set was 0.656 and 0.669, respectively. They were also close. The recall was 0.67 and f1-score was 0.66, too.

When modeling with Gradient Boosting algorithm, the best pair of accuracy scores for training set and validation set was 0.629 and 0.632, respectively. They were very close. The recall was 0.63 and f1-score was 0.61.

These findings demonstrate that we can discover the linkage of ethnicity to body measurements by training machine learning algorithms on the data and then predict the ethnicity. 
